The first "hackers" were students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) who belonged to the TMRC (Tech Model Railroad Club).
Some of the members really built model trains.
But many were more interested in the wires and circuits underneath the track platform.
Spending hours at TMRC creating better circuitry was called a mere hack.
Those members who were interested in creating innovative, stylistic, and technically clever circuits called themselves (with pride) hackers.
During the spring of 1959, a new course was offered at MIT, a freshman programming class.
Soon the hackers of the railroad club were spending days, hours, and nights hacking away at their computer, an IBM 704.
Instead of creating a better circuit, their hack became creating faster, more efficient program - with the least number of lines of code.
Eventually they formed a group and created the first set of hacker's rules, called the Hacker's Ethic.
Steven Levy, in his book Hackers, presented the rules.
Access to computers - and anything, which might teach you, something about the way the world works - should be unlimited and total.
All information should be free.
Mistrust authority - promote decentralization.
Hackers should be judged by their hacking, not bogus criteria such as degrees, race, or position.
You can create art and beauty on a computer.
Computers can change your life for the better.
These rules made programming at MIT's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory a challenging, all encompassing endeavor.
Just for the exhilaration of programming, students in the Al Lab would write a new program to perform even the smallest tasks.
The program would be made available to others who would try to perform the same task with fewer instructions.
The act of making the computer work more elegantly was, to a bonafide hacker, awe-inspiring.
Hackers were given free reign on the computer by two AI Lab professors, "Uncle" John McCarthy and Marvin Minsky, who realized that hacking created new insights.
Over the years, the AI Lab created many innovations: LIFE, a game about survival;
 LISP, a new kind of programming language;
 the first computer chess game;
 The CAVE, the first computer adventure;
 and SPACEWAR, the first video game.